show like planets we have to create
somewhere in the region two and a half
hours of CG and VFX for this series is
absolutely huge we have quite a bit of
experience recreating everything from
the Big Bang to the death of the
universe
so we've in the past covered most of the
subject matter or what we have to do
with scientists is get a grasp of the
physics and then try and represent that
in an interesting way for the viewer
[Music]
when we take on a job like this we tend
to start from a storyboard from a page
and a drawing or a piece of concept art
and just find some interesting aspects
of it to the process that we can do
something different with we're trying to
get away from this sci-fi Star Trek Star
Wars kind of look that conveys this sort
of big empty space out there a lot of
black a lot of very very slow camera
moves
we try and shoot elements for the image
or we we shoot scenarios when we can in
studio and combine that with more
conventional sort of 3d CG images and
mash it up and sometimes just use
something from NASA maybe as a
background we might go to the location
and shoot a landscape and then replace
the sky with a you know blacks kind of
giant Sun we have a scene at the
beginning of our solar system where the
sun's just formed and Jupiter formed at
the same time so this bowling ball on a
piece of metal is it's our Jupiter it
basically I used this in a creative
environment a gas and smoke and this was
the prop that we we use for that suppose
when we get it into post-production
we'll will add some Jupiter textures to
it yeah there's an awful lot of this
sort of thing creating explosions using
sand and flour and some of the Jupiter
textures are sort of hammerite paint
with petrol and some horrible solvents
create these beautiful patterns so we we
just experimental
we are currently setting up to show the
core of Saturn which the pressures are
so great apparently gases are turned
into a sort of liquid metal so we're
going to be raining helium through
compressed hydrogen we are throwing some
broken windscreen and past the camera
into some fog we try and find effects
that aren't rooted to a phenomena on
earth is that's where things tend to
happen oh he looks a little bit like
thunderstor a bit like a volcano or
whatever we just try and go really
abstract quite working
when we are in the studio we have a
storyboard frame or a concept image from
that we break down the elements we need
to recreate that image so in the case of
early Jupiter for instance we knew that
we had to have a sphere that we had to
then texture with gas and other material
and that then had to sit in a cloud of
gas there had to be other bits of debris
around so I'll shoot that a separate
layers and then back here we take all
those layers and we put them back
together and adjust them and put them in
front and behind and color them to
create the image is a bit like painting
so if one of the sequences in the Saturn
film we had to pass down through some of
the most violent enormous electrical
storms in the solar system we went to
the internet and bought these antique
single-use flash bulbs we cover those in
liquid nitrogen with boiling water sends
these massive clouds up around the bulbs
and then we fire the bulbs off in it
they just gives a 2,000 frames a second
makes it look absolutely enormous and
then back here we take two or three
passes of those layer them together and
create a giant storm and it is quite a
fun
[Music]
you